The 8 Step Model:
1.Formulating Research Problem
2.Conceptualizing Research Design
3.Constructing Instrument for Data Collection
4.Selecting a Sample
5.Writing a Research Proposal
6.Collection of Data
7.Processing Data
8.Writing a Research Report

Step 1: Research Problem
Formulating Research Problem: #BUT There is one important aspect before starting to find Research Problem
First and foremost in the Research process is to find the Research Problem. ->
This helps to kick-start the Research
Unless a problem or need exists, why should you do research?
It is worth waiting to identify a rightful Research Problem or Gap

Review the Existing Literature
Problem: Is our work novel?
Solution: Conduct an "initial literature review"

Step O - Literature review
Google Scholar
Literature Review - Main Sources: 
1.Books 
2.Journals:
Indices of Journals (Ex: Humanities Index)
Abstracts (Ex: ERIC)
Citation Indices (Ex: Social Science Citation Index)

Literature Review
Literature Review is the integral part of the entire research process and makes a valuable contribution to almost every operational step.
.Establishes links between what you are proposing and what has already been studied (i.e. research gap identification)
.Establish a theoretical roots of your study (i.e. "the shoulders of giants")
.You can have clarity on what MORE can be investigated.
.Inspiration for your methodologies
.It broadens your knowledge base in our research area

For beginners, a literature review can be:
.Time Consuming
.Daunting
.Frustrating
BUT IT IS ALSO REWARDING! And develops:
.Critical thinking skills
.Knowledge base in subject area
.Inspiration for your research

Group Activity Part 2: Connect to published researc
3. After identifying the challenge, find a few research articles (from Google Scholar) that addresses a similar issue to support or refine your understanding. 
Feel free to use ChatPDF/GPT to chat with the research articles. Can you find any gaps in the literature?

Reading academic papers
1. Skim read the Article (e.g. title, abstract, figures)
2. Read the Introduction and Conclusion
3. Analyze the Methodology (e.g. what data used, how collected, etc.)
4. Dive into the Results
5. Reflect and Take Notes

Group Activity 1: Brainstorm research problem (28th July)
21 Jul at 12:54
1. In your group, identify a common challenge that students face (for example, in managing their time effectively during the academic year). You can base this on your personal experiences, or on common observations you've encountered among peers. Brainstorm 5 options, and then discuss which one to focus on.
2. Once you've identified the challenge, conduct a brief discussion to draft a clear and concise problem statement. Your problem statement should include:
The specific issue (What is the challenge?)
The affected population (Who is facing this challenge?)
The impact of the problem (Why does this issue matter?)

Problem Statements - for focus on a problem
A problem statement is a clear and concise description of an issue that needs to be addressed, outlining the gap between the current situation and the desired outcome. It helps teams focus on the problem without jumping to solutions, ensuring a better understanding of the issue at hand.
Have a read through the following article:
https://www.scribbr.com/research-process/problem-statement/

-----
18.08.2025
Session objectives
In this session you will be learning,
Project management tools: Trello
Types of Study Design
Data Collection Methods

Group activity 2: Finding Research Gaps (18th August)
3. After identifying the challenge, find a few research articles (from Google Scholar) that addresses a similar issue to support or refine your understanding. Feel free to use ChatPDF/GPT to chat with the research articles. Can you find any gaps in the literature?
Steps when reading academic papers
1. Skim read the Article (e.g. title, abstract, figures)
2. Read the Introduction and Conclusion
3. Analyze the Methodology (e.g. what data used, how collected, etc.)
4. Dive into the Results
5. Reflect and Take Notes
4. After this, draft your research problem statement, be prepared to present it to the class via Google Slides presentation. You should also explain how your group arrived at this particular problem and why you believe it is significant, including your sources (i.e. academic papers).
Source: https://www.scribbr.com/research-process/problem-statement/

Trello Exercise (~1 hour) [Final assignment groups]

Each group will create a project board to organize their final projects. This will help assign tasks, sét deadlines, and track progress.

1. Sign-up and login to Trello

2 . Complete the first two chapters of the Trello tutorial individually

https://trello.com/quide

3. Set Up Your Group Board

a. Create a new board in Trello for your group project.

b. Share the board with all group members

c. Add your lists lists (e.g. "To Do" "In Progress" "Completed")

4. Add Tasks & Assign:

a. Identify 5+ tasks (e.g. "Pick a research problem")

b. Specify the details of each task

c. Assign tasks to specific group members d. Set due dates and add checklists

5. Track Progress:

a. Move tasks through lists as work progresses.

6. Submit:

a. Submit a screenshot of your current board onto the Discussion forum
